okay it records the had is in the
notes if you're here please put your
name on the attendees list if you have a
update for this week please add it to
the bottom of the PAP for asynchronous
review so people can see what you're up
to
we won't go through everything you've
been working on but if you have
initiatives or big big projects and
things that I'm not listed in the
initiatives then please feel free to add
them and we will do a quick update on
those alright so let's get this party
started is the IP FS core
implementations weekly sync it is
January xx today whoo January is zooming
past
let's go through the initiatives first
up we have upcoming slash shipped
releases Stephen you have an update for
go ipfs yes sir 24 quick 23 the Kratt
release our suit one is builds it was
supposed to be up by this meeting but
I'm still like to get some sign off us
nice the other it for me is that the CIA
is my BFS 0:41
is now green the goal of our tests are
passing four browsers for Mac OS for
Linux alex has got the majority of the
examples tests passing so that's awesome
as well I'm currently working on just
getting interrupt straightened out and
then we will be good to go so hopefully
a RC this week sorry for the delay
we have upgrading testing infra /
process I know would you like to I
wasn't sure where to put my update so I
put it with under like test I've added a
regression test from J's
oh gosh from ipfs web UI repo those
tests are entering tests in real
chromium web browser just making sure
you can like add files to idea files
using web interface and it tells a lot
of stuff including HTTP client just a
different go idea files in the repo
itself so I just reused those end-to-end
tests and added them to existing CI in
go repo and enjoy this repo that means
now when you make a change in go ID FS
or Jess idea files one of tests that
means to pass in your PR our regression
tests against ipfs web UI so that's
pretty useful thing to have if someone
breaks something that would like make it
impossible to upload files fire web UI
we don't like we will immediately notice
that not when web UI switches to the new
version
so that should save us a lot of
headaches at some point and vice versa
when web UI updates we can make sure it
still works with the current version of
JSF if it's an NGO activist yep right
these are cool PR thank you so much I
need to look at these as soon as
possible any other testing or infrared
dates that people would like to give all
right
content routing any anyone available to
update here yes I know a Dean has been
working this way is he here
he was give you update no no sausage got
it okay so he's working this talk to him
a lot on Friday he has a working
partners patch locally that mass was
implies the code any person to right
thing
he's gonna be heading over to Rivendell
on tomorrow I guess I think I think I'm
gonna pair on this try to push it
forward
some of us specifically describing what
he's doing there um it's implementing
disjoint paths right and multiple things
so yeah I destroyed paths implementing
like the correct kid Omega query logic
he's actually making a pluggable so you
can have like three different like
remotely query logic or whatever because
like they're different ways of actually
finding Emily it's not like paper
describes it sort of but they're
different optimizations you can apply I
say try to make it so you can just like
plugging a new query function but try it
out different things it also gets rid of
things like that I'll cue it stuff like
that and like it makes it much much
simpler and I believe it should be just
as good as the current code like the
current code has like yeah but we don't
get to that basically this is the first
step of just like this fixing condemn
alia to make it out the CAD DHT to make
it actually do a kid of my cells to do
the next step is that start off my
seeing much other things strike try to
make a thing faster
I also saw a son I think Raul was
posting about a like the the overall
plan for content rating and and that
might be available it's not ready yet
but it's coming soon they'll see that
yeah like there might be a technical
plan published publicly sometime next
week hopefully okay
hopefully early some traveling okay that
would be rad
okay alright moving on then set the main
gateway light or do you have any updates
here yeah just like a short update that
I finally started this work and I'm I
started it from the end so I'm writing
dogs first just over validate that the
things that we ought to make sense may
actually make sense so I like drafting
those config dogs for copy first repo
and like listening some like how would
convict look like for those common use
cases that we want to support don't like
look at the variable names will probably
change them like three times before it's
ready but it's like the approach I want
to do here is ensure we don't like
create too convoluted configuration so I
think the thing that's already on the PR
I had seen with Steven and kind of too
complex already I want to like dumb it
down make it even simpler so more
updates on that next week I guess thanks
you're doing read me driven development
and I approve of this yeah no you should
always start at this end if this is the
end or the beginning it should be the
beginning any questions for the lighter
one that
this is essentially what is what he's
just to summarize that for the people
who are watching the this is
configuration for like if you're setting
up a gateway if you want to run it as a
gateway that resolves resolves paths
paths based gateways so like ipfs the
bios / IDF s - - or if you want it to be
a like hash dot I professed Ohio gateway
so it's resolving it as a subdomain and
then like what domains you actually want
it to be working on and stuff and so
it's configuration allowing you to set
up your goai vessel Jess I'll be first
node as a in as a gateway in your own
like for yourself in your own way and
making that configuration nice and easy
and simple is that fair yeah okay cool
all right subdomain gateway if there's
no questions on that then we'll move on
to distributed signaling still holding
its on hold but hopefully next couple
weeks as three factors finishing up okay
IPS so is there any updates on this for
IP lost this week okay adding
performance is there any updates here
anyone I don't think so the him progress
thing here was badger to butter Dean's
primary focus the moment I said I've
been looking at improving pinning
performance historian pins in the
datastore and my update here is that I
discovered that the muscle memory for
locking your keypad on a laptop is not
the same as on a keyboard and if you
don't know when I keep on your laptop it
actually ends up quitting the web
browser that you have open which happen
to have my proposal for the right of my
proposal for the pinning performance in
it so that was really I will rewrite
that this way I'm pretty is that why
chrome switched Sid like having to hold
down ctrl command key yeah and I switch
to brave like you know just riveted
person should be running yes I'm yeah I
agree
firefox only alright anyway that's the
side um the migration tamati hash keys
in the block store on the jer side still
on hold because we're still focusing on
getting async/await out the door and
apparently go still needs a migration to
be written for this change but
everything else is in place right we
think most things are in place probably
yes excellent
okay so that's that um this what updates
Dirk you have an update here yes the
last week I've been working on a test
suite in test ground so I want to get to
the point where we can test out a few
different kinds of environments like a
data center internet style or an
internet kind of environment just so we
have confidence when we're making
releases of bits one so yeah it's
probably gonna take me another week or
so but uh making progress
nice I don't actually said this last
time but your poor request to get the
test ground out putting locks to a file
got emerged motorized so you can now
inspect all of the logs from all the
test rounds which is good news
cool okay so the next step is I think a
waitstaff I haven't written an update
here but Jacob would you like to update
us on Libby to be yeah we are there were
some issues with the browser examples
I was actually hitting issues that other
folks weren't because I didn't have some
of the bootstrap node intermediary
certificates all he was tackling those
and think everything is starting to look
much much better so I've got a browser
example is almost done
I revamp tit because it was kind of
annoying in crappy and so it should be
better
now so I'm just finishing that up a few
PRS for that then I'm gonna redo the do
final pass in the getting started guide
and then I think we have one bug with
pub/sub in Libby TP Interop I should be
able to get that fixed and hopefully
tomorrow and then I think we should be
hopefully good to release sometime later
this week fingers crossed
ray yeah I so okay the interesting thing
there is the Jo so DFS all of that stuff
is done but I'm working on the
interrupts tests and so today I had
running the exchange files interrupt
tests which is basically round round
trip for Libby to be you know
establishing connections SEC IO sending
files receiving them all of the PT
stuffs and it works and what I was
seeing on my laptop was that between the
current version that and this version we
have like things are faster and when the
file is bigger
things are a lot faster so at the moment
we have this problem where we've got
this kind of exponential slowness curve
where as you add bigger files things get
slower and slower but now it's more it's
way more linear so as you well it's kind
of a constant you can say that like JSI
BFS is like 10 times slower but it's not
like 10 times slower when when it's got
win at one make file and then 100,000
times slower when you've got a hundred
Meg file it's like ten times the way
whatever so there's there's a constant
there and so that makes me feel a lot
better about the performance because it
seems like there's there's some like
constant thing that we need to just
eradicate and then we can bring that
down so things are already faster
according to the tests on my laptop that
we wish I'll see as I finish off the
interrupt test and start running it in
COI so in those particular examples
things are looking good so that's cool
and that's the kind of async await
update I have for JSI BFS other than
like we're we're getting there slowly
getting there and interoffice happening
yesterday
when you so transferring a file is that
just like directly over the PDP
transport yeah I so this is these are
tests that test between go to go and go
to j s and j s2 j s i think they're all
done over this over tcp your WebSockets
I can't remember quite it's probably TCP
in the browser there will be WebSockets
yeah they're pretty
tests I realized that just saying
compared to the ones that were running
earlier they are better so all right
that's that
let's if anyone else had no one else has
any questions we'll move on cool
ok UNIX FS 1.5 is there any updates
there Alex will be my most appear that
adds support for dash
special commission to attachment also
thing recursive changed my operations
over trees can you add
can you write that up there because I
lost you yeah I lost the first part of
that sentence
Shawn sir and seeing as I'm recording
it's probably lost for everyone okay uh
right now I've lost the window with the
things in it okay cool cool
Peter stream stream content based
chunking research him previous so I
spent pretty much the entire last week
getting together a tool that allows me
to modify all parameters that we know
off for ways to produce CID out of
predefined stream
I'm almost almost almost ready with that
tool but it's not quite there yet it's
growing more and more options every
twenty minutes but I think I have gotten
it to its final state still fleshing out
the final CLI interface for it and
hoping to have it ready by tomorrow
evening called Wednesday at the latest
and then I will proceed working all host
Dirk's work tomorrow on with test ground
to test how long does it take us to
actually add and cut back more blocks
than we normally do for what your files
and for small amount of check to
basically ever have an idea what timings
we are the increase and this for him
who and so once you have the stats that
from the tool what is the what's the
plan the plan is to write up a write
write all of this up into a preliminary
this is what looks about right and then
the plan after that is to let this thing
run continuously over what seems
interesting and see basically what what
was out that's why the preparatory work
to be able to an experiment as fast as
possible modernist I also discovered
some problems as I was going you know
through through that with GSA be present
why because if not agreeing on adds
output with exactly the same parameters
on on the CLI add command so I'm going
to be writing the surprise over they
totally come
yeah that that's super interesting then
I assumed we would either change
defaults to be to reflect the the best
best dials or new oh you mean even after
my work eat so we definitely will look
at different defaults because there are
things that we could be doing that we're
not doing right now like before doing
any kind of size order transcendentalism
like that look for any kind of padding
like 8 or 16 or more identical bytes and
only after that do everything also to 8
to 12 inch right now which
[Music]
gives a completely different picture of
how different parts of files are being
found within we didn't address things
like a turf fire or at a park or
whatever
so yes the there is alt will definitely
be a new set of options whether they're
going to be default or not that's a
question of what we're building yes yes
so it was really to make a new chunker
it's gonna like the ultimate content or
early content-based
chunker sorry ultimate general purpose
content-based junker then switching this
the default is probably going to come
along with switching which other things
the default we've discussed several
times having like a importers version
kind of thing or like you can supposed
to get pro version zero which is current
system work for import over from one
which would be like all the nice
features we have right now turned on and
you quarter version to be like that plus
UNIX ms2 and all that kind of stuff then
we use this could just like say okay
like I've missed with a checkpoint use
this version I was thinking I like it
let's make the ultimate general-purpose
content chunker all right enough of that
design review proposals nothing in there
at the moment anyone want to add
something last minute
all right blockers and all asks does
anyone have a block or need to ask
something
questions okay
Ollie Evans you have a question I just
wonder I don't I don't think I've sinned
this list of endeavors change very often
now might be a good time to review the
list with the roofless focus on content
resolution speed and just as a quick
pass I thought maybe distributed
signalling IDNs and migration to multi
hash keys and box or might all be
endeavors you might consider pruning
with more fluid flow time to content
resolution and anything blocking it here
I've been waiting for the finish the
plan for a conic resolution so we
actually have a set of tasks like okay
and these are down lists
I'll talk to world later on today to
like figure out we can you'd like at
least an early version of that ASAP in
terms of like removing different tasks I
like actually I recently added the
migration thing
primarily cuz it's something kind of
like just squeezed into zero point five
point zero for a bunch of other reasons
but yeah it's a low priority which may
not really even belong here yeah it's
mostly there's a case someone has time
to pick up and maybe take it forward if
it doesn't get it to that release it's
not the end of the world it's just a bit
annoying but yes we definitely need to
go through this list and say I did
figure out which things really need to
happen right now in which things
probably aren't as important I mean what
it's mostly so like align the list of
things we talk about each week with
definitely they're the most important
yeah yeah I'm gonna go ahead and remove
all okay yeah we should probably remove
your eye penis add performance is
probably not as important with moment
migration of all tasks easier we don't
there's no reason to actually keep this
on the list it's kind of a back for
anything that might happen we can have
to connect hock update it swap updates
that's an in progress thing to be kind
of Al and basically obviously UNIX fest
1.5 yeah it's an important thing but a
lot of these priorities will change once
we actually have the plan if it's are
like putting people different tasks but
we don't really have you
that's fine I mean it was more a nudge
to conversation thank you I think it
would be a good idea to maybe prioritize
the ones we're actively working on and
have a sort of backlog the area where we
can just quickly skim through and to say
anyone working on this one or is it on
hold and we could just quickly do that
and rather than actually having to go
through the rigmarole of getting someone
to tell us that it's cool
all right thank you for suggesting that
let's do it
all right so did we get to the end we
did get to the end unless there's
anything else anyone else wants to say
whilst we're recording all right cool we
are on time thank you all for coming to
the jsf EFS core implementations and
Meetup and I will see you next week have
a lovely time bye bye good bye now